                  Title : Project Management System.

Document : System Requirement Specification Document.
Title    : Online Project Management System.

Objective: 
          1.The Online Project Management System Web Application is inteded to provide a 
            sutaible solution for Project Manager and Project team members to creating,
            assigning,completing,updating and finding daily Time Sheet of team members working process.
          2.The ability for manager is to create daily tasks,assigning tasks to team members,
            cheaking timesheet of employees,cheaking updates of tasks from employees,also have ability of
            updating tasks, deleting tasks,deleting team members from projects etc.
          3.The ability for team members is to complete tasks which will assigned by project manager and update 
            task status and aslo have a ability to update their daily time sheet.  
          4.Time sheet management is also provided for recording the amount of team members time spent on allocated job.
            Time sheet management is conventional method of calculating team members performance was done by tabular format using a 
            excel sheet etc.   
          5.At begning, the time sheet was used in fields of payroll calculation and account management.
          6.From time sheet start date and end date of the project can be rrecorded and these statistics can be later used for accounting,
            payrole, billing of client, tracking, estimation and calcutate hours of team members. 

Purpose  :
          1.This documentation specifies the System Requirements Specification(SRS) for the Project Management System(PMS).
            It describes the scope of system,both functional and non-functional requirements for the software,design constraints and system interfaces.
          2.The main purpose of Project Management system is to manage overall things which will be done while project developement.
          3.In this process we can controll the team managers,team members of project, also we can manage or follows time sheet of Team members.
          4.From these Project Management System manager can define daily tasks for team members on these running project and get updates from members about project, and know their time period
            which will working on these project.

Scope    : 
          1.The Project Management System addresses the management of software projects.It provides framework for organizing and managing resources in such a way that these resources deliver all the
            work required to complete a software projects within defined scope,time and cost constraints.
          2.The system applies only to the management of software projects and is tool that facilities decision
            making ; the PMS does not make decisions.
          3.The SRS describes only required functionality of PMS, not the functionality of external systems like 
            data storage, change management or virsion contrl system.
          4.The Project Management System Provides an interface for both Managers and team members in industry to use to track daily ststus of project and time sheet of members which will be working on these project.
          5.The system will allow for management of team members timesheet working in any IT firms.
            Team members will be able to log in and look at their own timesheets,while administrator will able to override worked hours values.
          6.Each User,Manager,Team members have different user interfaces.
          7.The Project manager interface will allow for entering/creating new taskas,provide time period for task,editing previous tasks, deleting tasks,searching tasks,finding timesheet of team members and finding status
            of tasks and project status.Also have a authority to assigning and deleting team members from project.
          8.The team member interface will allow to search task which will be assigned by project manager and aslo have action methods to upload status of project and update their own time sheets of project working. 

Overall Description :
   Current Solution :
                     As for the moment every team leader is using a specific software product or no software at all, for maintaining the project schedule, to organize the tasks of the project and to physically store 
                     the all project data.
   Product Perspective:
                     1.PMS it a standalone system that provides functionality described in the Product functions section. Itincludes all subsystems needed to fulfil these software requirements. In addition, 
                       the PMS hasinterfaces to the external systems, such Version Control System, Change Management and Bug Tracking System and Payroll System. These interfaces shall be implemented according to 
                       available industry standards and shall be independent from a specific external system.
                     2.We have to distinguish a Data Storage System (DSS) from all other external systems in that way, thatData Storage System enables normal functioning of PMS and is therefore essential.
                       PMS stores all itsdata in the DSS and hence has to maintain the connection to it. PMS shall access the data storage system through standard interface (JDBC, ODBS, ADO etc).
                     
User Characteristics :
                             There are two kind of users Admin as user and Employee is also user
                   Admin User 
                             Override timesheets value
                             View timesheets values.
                             Add/Remove employees.
                             Update database with values.
                   Employees User
                             View timesheets value.
                             Finalize time worked 
                             Clock-in and clock-out

Specific Requirements:

        External Interfaces:
                     The interface for the Timesheet System will be split among the user group. Administrator will be able to log in and have a screen that allows them
                        	Override timesheet values
	                        View timesheet values
	                        Add/Remove Employees
	                        Update database with values.
        Employees will be able to log in and view a screen that allows them to: 
                                View projects and tasks assigned them.       
	                        View timesheet values
	                        Finalize time worked
	                        Clock in and clock out.
        Requirements User Interfaces
	                         Admin/Project manager
                      	         Employee
        Hardware Interfaces
	                  Processor: Intel Core i5
	                  RAM: Min 4 GB 
	                  Hard Disk: 1TB

        Software Interfaces 
	                  Operating system: Windows 10 
	                  Technology Used: Asp.Net Core, HTTP server, IIS Server
	                  Database: My SQL 
	                  Tools used: Vs Code
        Communications Interfaces
	                  Postman tool
	                  Web browser

Functional Requirements :
           ➢ User Registration and Login : (UI01)
                              • The system will allow to register a new Employee.
                              • The system will allow existing employee or manager to log-on their account.
                              • The system will provide general help information.
           ➢ Manager Interface : (UI02)
                              • The system will allow to create new tasks.
                              • The system will allow to manage tasks.
                              • The system will allow to edit task.
                              • The system will allow to delete task.
                              • The system will allow to delete employee. 
                              • The system will allow to cheaking Timesheets of employees.
                              • Override timesheet values
                                        Input: The admin selects an employee that they want to override the timesheet value for, then the admin selects a specific shift they wish to edit.
                                        Action: The system will prompt the admin for new time values for this shift, and will update the database to reflect these new values.
                                        Output: The system will return to the screen that shows the list of shifts worked by the selected employee.
                                        Priority: Essential
                              • Add Employees
                                        Input: The administrator is on the add user screen and inputs the employee’s basic user information (name, email employee id etc) and selects the add option.
                                        Action: The system will add the user to the user listing, adding the inputted
                                        values into the database.
                                        Output: The system will return to the add user screen.
                                        Priority: Essential
                             • Remove Employees
                                        Input: The administrator will be on the remove employee’s screen and selects an employee to remove, and selects the remove option.
                                        Action: The system will remove the user from the database and all related shift information to that user.
                                        Output: The system will return to the remove user screen.
                                        Priority: Essential
                             • Update Database Values
                                        Input: The admin selects to update the timesheet database.
                                        Action: The system will access a file generated by the Optima System to populate the database with the most recent clock in/out information.
                                        Output: The system will display a confirmation message upon successful update or an error message upon failed update.
                                        This function will be specifically tailored to interface with the Optima System
                                        Priority: Essential
                             • Disable Clock In/Out Features
                                        Input: The admin selects to disable the clock in/out features
                                        Action: The system will no longer allow employees to use the web interface to Clock in and out.
                                        Output: The system will display a confirmation message upon successful update or an error message upon failed update.
                                        Priority: Essential
                             • Enable Clock In/Out Features
                                        Input: The admin selects to enable the clock in/out features
                                        Action: The system will allow employees to use the web interface to clock in and out.
                                        Output: The system will display a confirmation message upon successful update or an error message upon failed update.
                                        Priority: Essential 


          ➢ Create Task Interface : (UI02.1)
                              • This create task contain one form which have parameter like select 
                                employee, description of task, starting date, end date and create button.
                              • This field create a task and assign to a existing employee.
          ➢ Manage Task Interface : (UI02.2)
                              • Manage task contain one form which have parameter like select employee, 
                                 description of task, starting date and end date, and also there was two action 
                                 methods available 1st was edit and 2nd was delete.
                              • The process of delete function is to delete the task.
                              • Edit action contain again one form to edit existing task. 
          ➢ Edit Interface : (UI02.2.1)
                              • Edit interface contain again one form .
                              • This form have all parameters of create task form , but in this interface we 
                                can edit previous/existing tasks.
          ➢ Employee Interface : (UI03)
                              • The system gives information and define some rules for employee in 
                                dashboard field.
                              • The system contain again Update task Option.
                              • The system will allow Logout Employee.
                              • Finalize Timesheet
                                         Input: The employee selects to finalize their time worked for the pay period.
                                         Action: The system will prevent any additional working time to be added to the employee’s timesheet.
                                         Output: The system will display the time worked in timesheet format.
                                         Notes: The user will then be able to print it off from the web browser.
                                         Priority: Essential
                              • Clock In/Out
                                         Input: The employee selects to clock in/out.
                                         Action: The system adds a database entry indicating the current user id and time.
                                         Output: The system will display a confirmation message upon successful clocking in/out or an error message upon failed clocking in/out.
                                         Priority: Essential
          ➢ Dashboard Information : (UI03.1) 
                              • Dashboard contain Information and rules for employees.
          ➢ Update task Interface : (UI03.2)
                              • Update task interface contain one form where employee can update
                                their task working process which will starting , not working or completed etc.
                              • There will one update option available ,from this update option employee 
                                update their task working condition.
          ➢ Employee Update Interface : (UI03.2.1)
                              • In update interface update form available.
                              • Their are 3 options available like starting, in progress, completed.
                              • Also there are 2 buttons available one is update and other back.
                              • From update button employee can update there task status.


